README.md, before:

# Compressed Text-to-speech (Tacotron 2 + WaveGlow)
**Authors:** Ivan Vovk, Grigoriy Sotnikov, Vladimir Gogoryan, Dmitriy Smorchkov. All have equal contribution.

## **Compression results**
**Status:** Tacotron 2 is successfully compressed by ~30% using Tensor Train technique.
___
## **Installation**
To install all necessary libraries, open the terminal, `cd` to the project folder and run the command `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Another one dependency is `tntorch`, which you can install using the following commands:
* `git clone https://github.com/rballester/tntorch.git`
* `cd tntorch`
* `pip install`

P.S. If you want just to perform inference and have issues with installing `apex` library, then just skip it.
___
## **References**
This project is based on the following NVIDIA's repositories:
* [Tacotron 2](https://github.com/NVIDIA/tacotron2)
* [WaveGlow](https://github.com/NVIDIA/waveglow)

Trained models:
* [Tacotron 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1c5ZTuT7J08wLUoVZ2KkUs_VdZuJ86ZqA/view)
* [WaveGlow](https://ngc.nvidia.com/catalog/models/nvidia:waveglow_ljs_256channels)

Put them all into the `checkpoints` directory.
___
## **Synthesis**
In order to perform synthesis, run `inference.ipynb` notebook from the project root folder and follow the intructions.
___
## **Training**
### Tacotron 2
To train the model go to the `tacotron2` folder and set the proper `config.json` file (you can use default), after run from the terminal from the `tacotron2` folder the command `python distributed.py -c config.json` (It will run training process on available GPUs).
### WaveGlow
Do the same things as for the Tacotron 2.

Commit message:

notes and results about TT compression

README.md, after:

# Compressed Text-to-speech (Tacotron 2 + WaveGlow)
**Authors:** Ivan Vovk, Grigoriy Sotnikov, Vladimir Gogoryan, Dmitriy Smorchkov. All have equal contribution.

## **Compression results**
**Status:** Tacotron 2 is successfully compressed by ~30% using Tensor Train technique.

To compress model, initialize Tacotron 2 model and your config, load `state_dict` and run `model.compress_factorize(config['compress_config'])`.

#### Few notes about compression.
Compressing recurrent units in neural networks is a tricky task. And exactly LSTMs contain the most parameter space size and power in Tacotron 2. Error from pertubations made to the weights after low-rank decompositions will accumulate through the time and attention might easily got broken. In that case we've implemented Tensor Train application so that you can try to fine-tune your model.

### Our results
After TT application (compression factor was 26-30%) we continued Tacotron 2 training with new decomposed weights. After several days of convergence alignments became good again and TTS synthesis became stable.
___
## **Installation**
To install all necessary libraries, open the terminal, `cd` to the project folder and run the command `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Another one dependency is `tntorch`, which you can install using the following commands:
* `git clone https://github.com/rballester/tntorch.git`
* `cd tntorch`
* `pip install`

P.S. If you want just to perform inference and have issues with installing `apex` library, then just skip it.
___
## **References**
This project is based on the following NVIDIA's repositories:
* [Tacotron 2](https://github.com/NVIDIA/tacotron2)
* [WaveGlow](https://github.com/NVIDIA/waveglow)

Trained models:
* [Tacotron 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1c5ZTuT7J08wLUoVZ2KkUs_VdZuJ86ZqA/view)
* [WaveGlow](https://ngc.nvidia.com/catalog/models/nvidia:waveglow_ljs_256channels)

Put them all into the `checkpoints` directory.
___
## **Synthesis**
In order to perform synthesis, run `inference.ipynb` notebook from the project root folder and follow the intructions.
___
## **Training**
### Tacotron 2
To train the model go to the `tacotron2` folder and set the proper `config.json` file (you can use default), after run from the terminal from the `tacotron2` folder the command `python distributed.py -c config.json` (It will run training process on available GPUs).
### WaveGlow
Do the same things as for the Tacotron 2.
